Add documentation on how to get started and contribution (#151)
projectcaluma/caluma: README.md

[![Black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/projectcaluma/caluma)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

> A collaborative form editing service.

Author: I guess this will need to be discussed in a broader context as this is also written this way on caluma.io

docker-compose up -d --build
```

You can now access [GraphiQL](https://github.com/graphql/graphiql) at [http://localhost:8000/graphql](http://localhost:8000/graphql) which includes a schema documentation. The API allows to
query and mutate form and workflow entities which are described below.

### Entities

> Caluma is split into two parts, form and workflow. The form can be used without a workflow and visa versa, but the full power of Caluma comes when combining the two.

Reviewer: vice versa

Author: :smile:

> Each part consists of different entities, whereas an entity usually comes in pairs, a blueprint and a specific instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each part is based on several entities, which usually come in pairs: One defines a "blueprint" and is instance-independent, while the other one represents the blueprint in relation to a specific instance. The two entities are usually connected by a one-to-many relationship, e.g. there can be many concrete `cases` (instance-specific) following a certain `workflow` (global blueprint). 
```

Author: Integrated.

#### Form entities

**Form** defines the structure of a document, basically a container of questions.

> **Question** defines a single input of a form whereas a question has different implementation types defining how a question should be represented and validated.

Author: integrated.

> **Document** is a specific instance of a form being a container of answers.

Author: Integrated.

**Answer** containing user input of a specific question. There are different implementations of answer covering different data types.

#### Workflow entities

Naming and concept of workflow follows concept of [Workflow Patterns Initiative](http://www.workflowpatterns.com/).

**Workflow** defines a structure of a business process. It uses forward moving flows referencing tasks to model it.

**Task** is a definition of work being part of a workflow.

> **Flow** is a definition on what task resp. tasks follows another.

Reviewer: A **flow** defines a connection (directed graph?) between two or more tasks.

> **Flow** is a definition on what task resp. tasks follows another.

Author: Integrated.

**Case** is a specific instance of a workflow.

> **WorkItem** is a specific instance of a task a resource has to work off.

Reviewer 2: Generally I feel like this section could benefit from a concrete example, especially for readers who are not familiar with the concepts. Something along the following lines:

> A workflow could represent your company's hiring procedures. A task may be "evaluate application documents", another "send invitation" and another "send rejection". The flow would then define "send invitation" and "send rejection" as followups to the "evaluate" task.
> The Case would then represent the application of a single person who wants to start work at your company. "WorkItem" would mean specifically "review this person's documents".

Author: Discussed with @czosel and a tutorial style way of explaining should be done in another PR and some later point and would push the boundaries of this initial documentation PR.

### Configuration

> Caluma is a [12factor app](https://12factor.net/) so it is configurable per environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caluma is a [12factor app](https://12factor.net/) so it is configured using environment variables.
```

Author: Adapted.

Different environment variable types are explained at [django-environ](https://github.com/joke2k/django-environ#supported-types)

#### Common

A list of configuration options which you might need to configure to get Caluma started in your environment.

> * `SECRET_KEY`: A secret key used for cryptography. See [more](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.1/ref/settings/#std:setting-SECRET_KEY)

Reviewer 2: Add a note that this should be set to a random string of a certain length

Author: Good point

* `ALLOWED_HOSTS`: A comma separated list of strings representing host/domans Caluma will be served on. See [more](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.1/ref/settings/#allowed-hosts)
* `DATABASE_NAME`: Name of database to use (default: caluma)
* `DATABASE_USER`: username to use when connecting to the database (default: caluma)
* `DATABASE_PASSWORD`: password to use when connecting to database
* `DATABASE_HOST`: host to use when connecting to Postgres database (default: localhost)
* `DATABASE_PORT`: port to use when connecting to Postgres database (default: 5432)
* `LANGUAGE_CODE`: default language defined as fall back (default: en)

#### OpenID Connect

> When you want to connect Caluma to your [IAM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Identity_management) supporting OpenID connect you need following settings.

Reviewer 2: What if I don't? Do we support a standalone authorisation/authentication scheme?

Author: good point. Rewrote it that for authentication an IAM is required. If not available suggesting Keycloak.

* `OIDC_VERIFY_ALGORITHM`: Token verification algorithm (default: HS256)
* `OIDC_CLIENT`: Client name
* `OIDC_JWKS_ENDPOINT`: End point of JWKS in case a asymentric algorithm is used.
* `OIDC_SECRET_KEY`: Secret key when symmetric algorithm is used (defaults to `SECRET_KEY`)
* `OIDC_VALIDATE_CLAIMS_OPTIONS` dict of verify signature options. See [options parameter](https://python-jose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/jwt/api.html?highlight=decode_token#jose.jwt.decode) for details.
* `OIDC_GROUPS_CLAIM`: Name of claim to be used to represent groups (default: caluma_groups)

#### Extension points

Caluma is meant to be used as a service with a clean API hence it doesn't provide a Django app.
For customization some clear extension points are defined. In case a customization is needed
where no extension point is defined, best [open an issue](https://github.com/projectcaluma/caluma/issues/new) for discussion.

##### Visibility classes

> Visibility classes define what user can read per node. Such can be be configured as `VISIBILITY_CLASSES`.

Reviewer 2: This is the first time you mention nodes. Maybe a little explanation for people who are not familiar with GraphQL vocabulary would be helpful.

I'd also add a short conceptual explanation on how the permission system works:

> The visibility part defines what you can see at all. Anything you cannot see, you're implicitly also not allowed to modify. The visibility classes define what you see depending on your roles, permissions, etc. Building on top of this follow the permission classes (see below) that define what you can do with the data you see.

Author: well summarized. Integrated.

Following pre-defined classes are available:
* `caluma.core.visibilities.Any`: Allow any user without any filtering

> * `caluma.user.visibilities.Authenticated`: Filter results to none for not authenticated users

Reviewer 2: Wording: "Only show data to authenticated users"

Author: :smile: integrated.

> * `caluma.user.visibilities.CreatedByGroup`: Filter to group node has been created for

Reviewer 2: Requires too much knowledge: Does each node belong to a group? Suggestion:

> Only show data that belongs to the same group as the current user

Author: Sounds good. Integrated.

In case this default classes do not cover your use case, it is also possible to create your custom
visibility class defining per node how to filter.

Example:
```python
from caluma.types import Node
from caluma.form.schema import Form

class CustomVisibility(BaseVisibility):
    @filter_queryset_for(Node)
    def filter_queryset_for_all(self, node, queryset, info):
        return queryset.filter(created_by_user=info.context.request.user.username)

    @filter_queryset_for(Form)
    def filter_queryset_for_form(self, node, queryset, info):
        return queryset.exclude(slug='protected-form')
"""

```

> Save your visibility module as `visibility.py` and inject it Docker container as volume to path `/app/caluma/extensions/visibility.py`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add an example docker commandline?

Author: Added example to docker-compose.yml file which is used for installation and referenced it.

Afterwards you can configure it in `VISIBILITY_CLASSES` as `caluma.extensions.visibilities.CustomVisibility`.

##### Permission classes

Permission classes define who may perform which mutation. Such can be configured as `PERMISSION_CLASSES`.

Following pre-defined classes are available:
* `caluma.user.permissions.IsAuthenticated`: only allow authenticated users

> * `caluma.core.permissions.AllowAny`: allow any users to perform any mutation.

Reviewer 2: Not a documentation feedback, but: Wouldn't it be useful to have an analog to the visibility class `CreatedByGroup` here? As in "only edit stuff you created" for example?

Author: Good idea. I could actually use this for Fromarte. Will do this in another PR I guess.

In case this default classes do not cover your use case, it is also possible to create your custom
permission class defining per mutation and mutation object what is allowed.

Example:
```python
from caluma.form.schema import SaveForm
from caluma.mutation import Mutation

class CustomPermission(BasePermission):
    @permission_for(Mutation)

>     def has_permission_default(self, mutation, info):

Reviewer 2: To meaningfully implement my own permission class/method, I need to know how to make my decision, ie. where to get my information. 
Please add some documentation explaining what's in the info parameter (I assume request, user, maybe more?) Also what does the mutation contain? Do I have access to the queryset?

Author: added some docs for arguments
